================
Methods and Data
================

The lake-river routing product provides a routing structure (which here refers to both the topology of the stream network and the contributing areas to individual lakes and stream reaches), to correctly represent lakes and be easily customized based on various user requirements. The lake-river routing topology and the geometry of contributing areas is developed by BasinMaker using the MERIT DEM (Yamazaki et al. 2017), HydroLAKES (Messager et al. 2016) geospatial databases and the locations of xxxx streamflow gauges from Water Survey of Canada (WSC) and United States Geological Survey (USGS). MERIT DEM is a high accuracy global DEM at 3 arcsecond resolution (~90 m at the equator) developed by eliminating major error component from the existing spaceborne DEMs (Yamazaki et al. 2017). HydroLAKES is a database that includes shoreline polygons of all global lakes with a surface area of at least 10 ha (Messager et al. 2016). Compared with datasets used in Pan-Canadian lake-river routing product development (Han et al. 2020), the resolution of DEM is increased from 15 arcseconds to 3 arcseconds. 

Because post-processing tools from BasinMaker already provide user with the feasibility to decrease the resolution of the North America lake-river routing product by removing lakes or increasing catchment size, the developed North America lake-river routing product does not contain products at multiple spatial resolutions which is implemented in Pan-Canadian lake-river routing product (Han et al. 2020). Instead, the North America lake-river routing product is generated by using a small flow accumulation threshold 2000 to define stream network and including all lakes from HydroLake database. With this setup, the average catchment size of the North America lake-river routing product is just around 10 km2. While the average catchment size in the highest resolution Pan-Candian lake-river routing product is around 60 km2 (Han et al. 2020). Thus, the combination of post-processing tools in BasinMaker and the North America lake-river routing product can meet most of demands from hydrological modeling communities. 

The same method from the Han et al, 2020 was used to estimate routing parameters for river reaches and catchments in the North America lake-river routing product except bankfull width, depth, and discharge. The bankfull width, depth, and discharge of each catchments/river reaches in the North America lake-river routing product were estimated by following three steps: 1) The bankfull discharge (Q in [m3/s]) and the drainage area (DA in [km2]) relationship (Q=k×DAc) for each drainage region is derived using data from a global bankfull width (w in [m]), depth (d in [m]), DA and discharge Q for each channel reach of the HydroSHEDS default (finest scale) river system (Andreadis et al. 2013). The extent of each drainage region can be found in this web site http://hydrology.uwaterloo.ca/basinmaker/download_regional.html; 2) Then the Q of each river reach in each drainage region of North America lake-river routing product were estimated based on the developed relationship in corresponding drainage region; Finally, the bankfull width w and depth d for river reach in North America lake-river routing are derived by the following relationship introduced by Andreadis et al., (2013):
w= 7.2 Q0.5;    d=0.27Q0.39 
